# NFL-Draft-prospect-predictor-
NFL general managers and scouts spend countless hours watching player's game film, analyzing their mechanics and behaviors. They have to do this because they are about to invest in to a young man, but first they need to make sure they are making the right investment. There numerous variables that go in to the success of an NFL football player, therefore, no player is a sure thing. What if there was an in-depth website that would take all of those variables, use data from former and current players, and create a percentage chance success rate for each particular player? Factors in the calculation would include physical measurables, individual and team college statistics, intelligence, and character. All of these factors will be quantified, some using a scale form. College statistics will be broken down statistically, as well. If a player had more opportunity to produce more statistics due to his team's scheme it will be accounted for. Statistics can be misleading on paper, so we must adjust to produce the most accurate results. 

A major influence in a player's success is their draft round. A player selected in the 1st round will receive more opportunities and time to develop and succeed. Compared to a 6th round pick, who might not get enough chances to prove himself worthy of a roster spot. That being said, the website will allow users to enter in a "draft round" to adjust for opportunity that the player would likely receive. 

Past player profiles, statistics, and measurements will help lay the basis of the data. The success of those players will be graded based on the amount of years they played in the NFL, individual and team statistics, Pro Football Focus ratings, and more. 

This website will not solely predict the outcome of the NFL draft by any means, but it will be an extremely useful tool for NFL general managers and scouts to use, especially as a reference. I think this website could be used as the basis of trade negotiations and determining contract values. 

The base of our project is extracted from a source that has already made great progress in deveolping the desired equation. The following link directs you to the source's page:
https://github.com/walt-king/NFL-draft-research


The goal of this predictor is to be able to insert a variation of variables, some of which are wieghted much heavier than others, in to the website, and for the user to receive results that can help him make decisions. For example, the Kicker positon is very valuable in football. When the game is on the line with and the team is counting on their kicker to tie or even win the game, it is important to have a reliable kicker. However, with all of that being said, Kickers can be found a dime a dozen. Therefore, our equation should tell the user not to draft a Kicker in the 1st round becasue the value does not add up. NFL general managers and scouts can insert positions into the equation to determine if drafting a certain positon in early rounds is more beneficial than other positions. 
